In this video I'll explain Dior as a virtual machine and group affinity rules when we enable Diyar rests
on a cluster of ESX hosts.
We're going to allow press to automatically take virtual machines and move them around.
And this could potentially create some unexpected results.
So for example in our slide here we see four ESX high hosts and we have two domain controllers running
as virtual machines.
And at the moment there are different ESX high hosts when we enable fully automated Diyar as we're going
to allow virtual machines to be automatically Vae motion from host to host.
So we have the possibility that domain controller 2 and domain controller one could end up on the same
ESX I host.
And if that ESX I host word fail.
Well now we've lost both of our domain controllers.
So when we automate certain things like DRM when we allow virtual machines to be automatically moved
around we may need to think about what could potentially go wrong and create some rules that govern
this behavior and anti affinity rule would force these virtual machines to remain on different hosts.
So that's definitely something you should consider for any virtual machines that serve I redundant purpose
such as domain controllers.
We can also create affinity rules that are enforced on a wider scale.
So for example we could create the IRS groups of hosts on the left hand side we have three ESX hosts
that have been grouped together as our production hosts on the right hand side.
We have three ESX hosts that are our development hosts and we can also create groups of virtual machines
as well and we can say all of our production VMP must run on the production hosts
Well what if those ESX hosts fail.
Now I've created a group of virtual machines and a group of VSX I hosts and I've created a group of
finity rule that says the production venoms must run on the production host.
If those production hosts were to fail those virtual machines would not restart the development hosts.
Now we do have another way that we can set up a group affinity role.
The rule that I've just described is called the required affinity rule.
That means that these virtual machines must run on the production host and they cannot run on the development
hosts for any reason.
I could create a preferential affinity rule that would have a similar effect.
However preferential affinity rules can be violated if a high availability event occurs.
So what does that mean.
Well in that circumstance if the three production hosts were to fail high availability could actually
restart these virtual machines on the development hosts.